This is a mild porting, by Doug Rohde, of Gary Perlman's UNIX|STAT 5.2 suite
of analysis tools.  Changes have been made to prevent buffer overflows and
reduce compiler warnings.

There are versions of these binaries for Linux, Windows (using Cygwin), and
Mac OS X.  Make sure you have the right one.

If you want to compile your own version, download the source distribution, go
to the src/ directory, and run "make".  You may need to edit the settings in
the Makefile for your system.

To install the programs, log in as root and copy the programs in the bin/
directory to your favorite location.  Possible choices are:

/usr/bin
/usr/local/bin
/home/$USER/bin

Alternatively, you can add the bin directory to your PATH environment 
variable.

   --------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               UNIX|STAT 5.2

                               Gary Perlman

                   DATA MANIPULATION & ANALYSIS PROGRAMS
                            FOR UNIX and MSDOS

     UNIX|STAT is a set of over 20 data manipulation and analysis  programs
developed  at  the  University  of  California,  San  Diego and at the Wang
Institute of Graduate Studies by Gary Perlman.  The programs  are  designed
with  the  UNIX  philosophy  that individual programs should be designed as
tools that do one task well and produce output suitable for input via pipes
to  other  programs.   Interactive  use  is  supported  in the command line
interpreter  which  also  provides  a  programming  language  for   complex
analyses.   Typical  usage  involves  a pipeline of transformations of data
followed by input to an analysis program, summarized schematically by:

            INPUT DATA | TRANSFORM | ANALYSIS | OUTPUT RESULTS

Functions built into many statistical packages (e.g., graphics and editing)
are  not  re-invented  in  UNIX|STAT which delegates such responsibility to
standard tools.

DATA MANIPULATION PROGRAMS:

     abut      join data files
     colex     column extraction
     dm        column oriented data manipulator
     dsort     multiple key data sorting filter
     maketrix  create matrix type file from free-form file
     perm      permute line order
     probdist  probability distribution functions
     ranksort  rank order columns
     repeat    repeat a pattern or file
     reverse   reverse lines, columns, and characters
     series    generate a series of numbers
     transpose transpose matrix type file
     validata  verify data file consistency

DATA ANALYSIS PROGRAMS:

     anova     multi-factor analysis of variance
     calc      interactive algebraic modeling calculator
     contab    contingency tables and chi-square
     desc      descriptions histograms, frequency tables
     dprime    signal detection d' and beta calculations
     oneway    one-way anova and t-test with error-bar plots
     pair      paired data statistics, regression, plots
     regress   multivariate linear regression and correlation
     stats     report summary statistics
     ts        time series analysis and plots

FEATURES:

     easy to use programs (negligible training period)
     simple input formats (free format field oriented)
     used in pipelines with other utilities (sort, print)
     flexible data manipulation
     several simple lineprinter plotting options
     data validation (range and type checking)
     documentation includes online manual entries, Handbook
     consistent option conventions with online help
     runs on any UNIX System (V6, V7, 2.8BSD, 4BSD, System V, etc.)
     runs on MSDOS 2.0 and 3.0 with 96K (IBM, Wang, AT&T, etc.)
     usually less than a few seconds per analysis
     liberal copyright (but can't be distributed for gain)
     in use at hundreds of MSDOS and UNIX sites since 1980

WARRANTY AND DISTRIBUTION CONDITIONS:

     Carefully read the following warranty and conditions.  If you  do  not
find them acceptable, you should not order or use UNIX|STAT.
     Warranty.  UNIX|STAT is provided ``as is'' and  without  any  warranty
expressed  or  implied.  There is no claim that UNIX|STAT is suited to your
needs,  nor  that  it  will  run  on  your   particular   hardware/software
configuration.   The  availability  of and programs in UNIX|STAT may change
without notice.
     Copyright Conditions.  You may make copies of any  tangible  forms  of
UNIX|STAT,  provided  that there is no material gain involved, and provided
that the information in this flyer accompanies every  copy.   You  may  not
modify  the source code for any purposes other than getting the programs to
work on your system.  You may not distribute any modified  source  code  to
any sites other than your own.  Any costs in compiling or porting UNIX|STAT
to your system are your's alone, and not any other parties.
     Use At Your Own Risk.  All risk of loss of any  kind  due  to  use  of
UNIX|STAT is with you, the user.  You are responsible for all mishaps, even
if the programs prove to be defective.  You must be trained at your expense
to  learn  to  use  the programs.  In particular, you are hereby given fair
warning that data analysis programs make many assumptions about data, These
assumptions  affect  the  validity of conclusions you may make based on the
programs.  References to appropriate statistical sources are  made  in  the
UNIX|STAT Handbook and in the manual entries for specific programs.

ORDERING INFORMATION:

     Carefully read the instructions below.  Orders not following them  may
be  be  returned or even discarded.  All prices include delivery and should
be prepaid to G. Perlman.  Checks must be in US funds, drawn on a US  bank.
Orders that include any terms or conditions other than those in this notice
may be returned or discarded.  Company purchase orders should be avoided in
favor  of a personal check, with a request for a receipt if needed.  Orders
must include a delivery mailing label acceptable to the  post  office,  and
international  orders  must  include the country name on the label.  Orders
without mailing labels may not be deliverable or returnable.

UNIX Version of UNIX|STAT:
     Price:    $20
     Contents: Program (C language) & Manual (troff) Source Files
     Space:    450K bytes for source and manuals, 450K bytes for binaries
     Format:   600 foot half inch 9 track mag tape, 1600 bpi tar format
MSDOS Version of UNIX|STAT:
     Price:    $15
     Contents: Preformatted Manuals and Executables
     Space:    700K for binaries and online manuals
     Format:   2S/2D MSDOS 5.25 inch floppy diskettes
Handbook:
     Price:    $10
     Contents: Examples, Reference Materials, CALC & DM Manuals, Manuals
     Format:   Typeset Manual (~100 pages)

CONTACT:

     Gary Perlman
     Wang Institute of Graduate Studies
     Tyng Road
     Tyngsboro, MA 01879 USA
     UUCP: decvax!wanginst!perlman  CSNET: perlman@wanginst

NOTES:

     UNIX is a trademark of AT&T Bell Laboratories.
     MSDOS is a trademark of MicroSoft.
     UNIX|STAT is NOT a product of any company or organization.

